okay so what we're going to do in this video
is a really clear explanation of what's going
to happen in the post-covid economy
if we don't do anything aboutthe
massive increase in inequality now
okay those of you who've been following this
channel from the start will have seen in the
very first video on this channel i predicted
that Covid would cause a massive increase in
inequality, increasing house prices, increasing
stock prices, increasing inflation and a massive
increase in cash accumulation by the richest
people in our society - those things have now
all come true - people who know about my career
before i started doing this will know that i
was one of the world's most successful traders and
economic forecasters coming out of the 2008 crisis
so i know a lot about what happens after
economic disasters and the way they affect
the economy we need to talk about what is
going to happen in the next couple of years
now i'm going to say right from the start
okay these are not going to be optimistic
predictions okay if we don't take any action
against a massive increase in equality that's
happened in the last couple of years the future
is going to be pretty bleak i'm going to say that
right from the start okay this is not going to
be an optimistic video if we don't take action
things are going to be really bad for ordinary
families in this country and around the world
but we need to talk about it because the only way
we can prevent these bad things from happening
is if we understand the significance of inequality
so we get people together to do something about it
okay my biggest biggest economic concern for
the next couple of years is that the media
and economists in the media completely ignore
the massive increase in cash accumulation by
the richest you can already see it right now
when we look at the huge amount of inflation
which as you know i predicted at the beginning of
Covid based on a massive cash accumulation by
the rich the media is only talking about that in the
context of the Ukraine-Russia war it's very very
important you do not let people say that this is
caused solely by the war there has been a massive
accumulation of cash by the richest people the
reason it's important that people understand this
is if it starts to be accepted generally that the
inflation is only due to the war then we're not
going to do anything about this massive massive
cash accumulation right so if we have this massive
cash accumulation and we do nothing about it then
we are going to move forward with the average
richest people in this country sitting on
a hundred grand extra cash than pre-covid
so what's happening now it's basically an
economic experiment what happens if you just
print a hundred grand for each rich person in
the country and give them each hundred grand
that is what's happening okay if we go forward
saying the inflation is only because of Ukraine
then we're going to ignore that cash which means
they will keep that cash so what is going to
happen to society if every single super-rich
person is sitting on 100 grand in the bank
they're not going to keep that cash sitting
in the bank they're going to use it primarily
to buy assets okay what that means is they're
buying assets from ordinary or poorer people
but also they're going to push up the prices
of natural resources we've seen that massively
in Covid right so consider what's happening now
okay your average rich person has 100 extra cash
your average ordinary or poorer person is
looking at £3000 a year extra in bills
so this means ordinary and poor families are
going to have to start selling their assets
to richer families in order to sustain their
quality of life and their kids quality of life
so what you see is fewer and fewer
ordinary families owning property
and richer people getting more and more of the
real assets in the economy the other thing they're
going to do is start loading that money out that's
going to mean there's more money to be borrowed in
the economy which is going to push house prices
up even further so you're going to move to a
situation where richer families are buying the
houses of poor families more specifically you're
going to see kids from richer families able to
pay huge amounts of money for property which
means kids from poorer families don't ever
get property this creates a situation where
ordinary kids ordinary young people from ordinary
families spend longer times renting which means
they pay more rent to the rich and if they do buy
property they have to buy using bigger mortgages
which means bigger mortgage payments for a longer
period of time to the rich and they will possibly
never pay those mortgages off in the whole of
their lifetimes so what we're looking at is a
future where ordinary families cannot own property
increasingly and if they can own property it's
using bigger and bigger mortgages whereas richer
families own more of the properties and have
enormous amounts of debt owed to them from the
rest of us so what does that mean right that means
ordinary families then number one first they've
lost disposable income because the increase in
food and energy prices which is largely caused
by the massive increase in cash held by the rich
secondly they have to rent for longer third if
they can buy they have to buy bigger mortgages
so all of these things are draining cash out
from the bank account of ordinary people and
putting that cash into the bank accounts of richer
people who own the properties receive the rent
own the mortgages receive the interest and
own the natural resources so receive the
money when the natural resources go up so
every single thing that is happening here
is dragging cash out of ordinary families bank
accounts and putting it into the bank accounts
of richer people so the long-term consequences
of this increase in covid inequality is just
a sucking a draining of cash from the ordinary
families from the middle class of this country
and all of that cash going to the rich but what
does it mean if ordinary people don't have money
well it means ordinary people can't go to
the pub, they can't go to the cinema, they can't
go to the theatre, they can't go to the football,
they can't go on holiday right but these are the
things that drive the economy right if ordinary
people can't spend money then the rest of the
economy is going to be starved of customers right
and what you're going to see is this splitting in
society where increasingly ordinary families have
basically nothing and the rich have everything and
then the economy which relies upon the spending
of ordinary people is going to be starved of that
spending so even if you yourself are not affected
your job will be affected so what you'll see
then is wages being dragged down but who receives
wages ordinary people receive wages who pays wages
the business owners which are the rich people
so every single thing that is happening here is
dragging cash and resources away from the ordinary
families of this country and giving it to the rich
and on top of all this the number one thing is we
are not taxing the super rich we are taxing them
at super low rates so we're sucking the wealth
and the income out of this country and we're
giving it to this tiny group of elite super rich
people who pay no tax this is the equivalent of
your neighbor giving his house away giving all of
his money away to somebody who doesn't care about
him and will never give it to him back if we give
all of the resources of this country to the rich
who don't pay tax we might as well be giving it
to aliens these guys are not going to support our
economy and look i'm not just saying this i bet
that this exact thing would happen after 2008 and
lead to a prolonged economic crisis a prolonged
stagnation in ordinary living conditions okay so
if we don't do anything about
the rising inequality now
you know i'm not going to put a fine point on
it is going to be the death of the economy
for this country for ordinary families
over the next five ten years - it will
dominate this economy for the next five ten
years and the realistic consequence of that
we're not just talking about the poorest
people ordinary people if you are in the middle
of this country the 50th percentile your kids will
not get a house because of what is happening now
that is what is going to happen you know what
i mean and even if you're richer than that
your grandkids are not going to get
a house because we are draining the
resources of this economy and giving it to
the super rich who do not pay any tax okay so
that's what's going to happen the human
consequences are going to be terrible
i'm betting on that happening
because i think it's going to happen
the number one thing which is going to
determine whether this happens or not
is whether ordinary people understand that
the problems we are facing now economically
are caused by the massive cash accumulation of
the richest people if ordinary people understand
that then they can demand from politicians
look we are not going to vote for anyone
unless they do something serious about taxation
of the richest and let me address one other thing
now okay to people out there who are going
to say look you can't tax the riches because
they'll leave okay look at what look what's
happening now right look at roman abramovich okay
he's losing all of his assets in this country
again it doesn't matter where roman abramovic is
because his assets are here in this country
okay and what is happening now with the russian
oligarchs is making it super clear we can tax
these people it doesn't matter if they leave
their assets are here and we can tax them and if
we don't tax them then the future is going to be
really really bad for the people of this country
and i'm not just saying that i've been betting on
this for 15 years i've made millions of pounds
doing it and that is what is going to happen
oh yeah we'll take that for our
first take shall we? yeah
housing could be so much more affordable wages
could be so much higher and we could have so
many more options in how we live our lives some
of them put a lot of money into paying economists
and think tanks to tell you that inequality
is important for the economy that is not true